Now let's review some Feature
Engineering techniques.
Here's what we're
going to talk about.
There's basic feature
scaling, usually,
especially with numerical data,
where you're really
doing is scaling
the numerical features
in different ways.
We'll talk about some
of the basics of these
like normalization
and standardization.
You can also do bucketizing
or binning and we'll
talk about that.
That's a useful
technique as well.
Then some other techniques like
dimensionality reduction for
example. Let's get started.
Feature Engineering takes
a variety of forms,
normalizing,
and scaling features, and
coding categorical
values and so forth.
We have scaling and
normalizing and standardizing.
We can also do groupings,
so that could be bucketizing.
Where things like for text,
we could do a bag of words.
This is going to
be very dependent
on the particular algorithm
that you're going to use.
You have to understand
the connection between
the kinds of scaling or
grouping that you do
and the algorithms that are
going to be using with it.
Scaling converts
to standard range
and different techniques
to it differently.
For example, a gray-scale
image pixel intensity
is typically
expressed in the raw data
as a number between 0-255,
and then that's usually re-scale
to negative one to one.
Here's some Python, for
example, for doing that.
The benefits of that are,
it helps the neural
network to converge
faster or maybe converge at all.
It does away with
a lot of the problems with
not a number errors
during training.
For each feature the model
is really trying to
learn the right way,
and having them in the
right numerical range,
helps a lot with that.
Here's the standard formula
for normalizing something.
It's also called min-max.
You're taking your X,
you're subtracting the minimum
value of that feature.
You have to make a full pass over
your data set to get
that minimum value,
and then you subtract that
and then you divide by
the maximum value minus
the minimum value.
You're going to need
to make a full pass
to get those numbers.
Then it gives you a number
that is between 0-1.
Normalizations are
usually good if
you know that the distribution of
your data is not Gaussian.
Doesn't always have to be true,
but typically that's a good
assumption to start with.
A good rule of thumb.
If you're working
with data that you
know is not Gaussian,
or a normal distribution,
then normalization is a good
technique to start with.
Normalization is widely
used for scaling,
you have a numerical feature
that might start out like this,
where numbers are falling and
there is a kind of a range.
You're going to transform that to
the normalized version of that,
which is bounded in
a range between 0-1.
That's normalization.
You're probably familiar with
this although you may not
have thought of some of
the production implications like
the fact that you need to
make a full past career data
set in order to get the
numbers that you're
going to need to
perform normalization.
The scales here are again,
between 0-1 and whatever
the original was.
Standardization, which is
often using a Z-score,
is a different technique.
It's a way of scaling using
the standard deviation.
It's looking at the distribution
itself and trying to
scale relative to that.
The example here is using,
, and you're going to
subtract the mean and divide
by the standard deviation.
That gives you the Z- score
or the standardized value of X.
Which is somewhere between
zero and the standard deviation.
This is how that's expressed,
actually between some multiple
of the standard deviation.
But it's centered around
the mean of the data.
If the original looked
like this, again,
a standardized value of
that might look like this.
Notice that this score
is centered on zero,
so the mean is
translated to zero.
But you can have
negative values and
positive values that
are beyond one.
It's a little bit less
bounded transformation
than a normalization is.
But there are some
advantages to it,
that your data is a
normal distribution,
then a standardization technique
is a good place to start,
it's a good rule of
thumb to start with
for your numerical features.
But I encourage you to try
both standardization
and normalization
and compare the results.
Because sometimes it doesn't
make much of a difference.
Sometimes it can make a
substantial difference.
It's good to try both.
Moving on into
bucketizing and binning.
We're going to take
a look at an example
where we have a house that
was built in a particular year
and we're going to
bucketize that.
Often you don't want to enter
a number directly into a model.
Instead, you want to encode it as
a category by grouping
it into buckets.
You notice how we've taken
our number, our year,
and we've created a one-hot
encoding of that that helps
us learn from that number in
a more really relevant way
because the difference
between 1960 and 61
isn't nearly as important
as the difference
between 1960 and 1970 in
terms of the value that
this feature contained.
Looking at how it gets binned
into one-hot encoded vector,
you can see it's put it
into different buckets.
We can also look at
that using facets,
which is a nice
visualization tool
to help us look at that.
This really demonstrates some of
the value of bucketizing
and binning,
but it also is
a good way to look at your
data and try to understand it.
Which is an important part
anytime you're working with data,
is making sure that
you really have
a good solid understanding
of what's happening in
your data and develop an
intuitive sense for it.
This kind of visualization
can really help you do that.
Some other techniques.
There's dimensionality
reduction techniques,
for example, that you can do.
There's PCA, which is
going to project your data
along the principal components
in order to reduce the
dimensionality of it.
There's t-SNE, which is
an important technique for
embeddings, often very useful.
Uniform manifold approximation
and projection is
a less well-known technique,
but interesting and has
some interesting aspects.
We won't really go
into that in detail.
Then feature crossing as well.
One of the things that
you can use when you're
working with embeddings is
an embedding projector,
like the TensorFlow
embedding projector
that we're looking at here.
You can quickly get an idea of
what your data looks like
at a particular space.
That again, is helping
you to develop
that intuitive
sense of your data.
You can already see
just looking at it,
you can get a feel for
how it's clustered.
You can see where different
types of data land in that space.
That understanding is very
important to help you
work with your data.
This is really where some of
the art of feature
engineering comes into play,
where you as a developer
developed this
understanding of your data.
As an intuitive exploration,
really important for
high-dimensional data
because we as humans
can visualize maybe
three dimensions
and then it gets really weird.
Even four is hard and
20 is impossible.
Visualizing it and
analyzing it is important.
There's different techniques
for doing that or for
doing dimensionality
reduction along
that to help you understand that.
PCA that you're
probably familiar with
principal component analysis and
t-SNE and UMAP that we just
talked about a little bit.
Then there's other custom
linear projections as well.
That TensorFlow embedding
projector is available.
It's free, you can
go play with it.
It's actually a lot of fun,
but it's also a great
tool to really help
you understand your data.
There's the address for it
if you want to learn more.
Key points for this
particular section,
feature engineering.
It's going to
prepare and tune and
transform and extract
and construct
features where we're going to
work with features
and change them
starting with our raw data
through to the data that
we're going to give to our model.
Feature engineering is very
important for model refinement.
Really, it can make
the difference
between successfully
modeling something and not.
Feature engineering really
helps with ML Analysis
and really developing
that intuitive
understanding of our data.